# machine-learning-guide
This is a list of machine learning resources and a guide to some starter frameworks and libraries.

By Brian Curry, Founder @ Kansas City Machine Learning Group

Here are a few of the top libraries, frameworks and tools for Machine Learning, Data Science and Deep Learning. This is just a starting point but should provide an excellent overview of some of the Machine Learning and Deep Learning tools libraries available. A lot of these are focused on Python as it is an excellent and flexible language for Machine Learning and Data Science. However, this list was compiled without a specific language in mind. These resources represent an excellent starting point for anyone wanting to learn more about Machine Learning, Deep Learning and Data Science tools.

Personally, I prefer R or Python and the associated libraries as a starting point, although Azure is super simple but limited, and Tensorflow has become one of my favorite libraries but this list is meant to be a broader introduction to some of the resources available.

Frameworks:

Apache Spark MLib - MLlib fits into Spark's APIs and interoperates with NumPy in Python (as of Spark 0.9) and R libraries (as of Spark 1.5). You can use any Hadoop data source (e.g. HDFS, HBase, or local files), making it easy to plug into Hadoop workflows.
Apache Signa - “Deep learning” frameworks power heavy-duty machine-learning functions, such as natural language processing and image recognition. Singa, recently accepted into the Apache Incubator, is an open source framework intended to make it easy to train deep-learning models on large volumes of data.Singa provides a simple programming model for training deep-learning networks across a cluster of machines, and it supports many common types of training jobs: convolutional neural networks, restricted Boltzmann machines, and recurrent neural networks. Models can be trained synchronously (one after the other) or asynchronously (side by side), depending on whatever works best for the given problem. Singa also simplifies cluster setup with Apache Zookeeper.
Caffe - Caffe is a deep learning framework made with expression, speed, and modularity in mind. It is developed by the Berkeley Vision and Learning Center (BVLC) and by community contributors.Yangqing Jia created the project during his PhD at UC Berkeley. Caffe is released under the BSD 2-Clause license.
Torch - Torch is a scientific computing framework with wide support for machine learning algorithms that puts GPUs first. It is easy to use and efficient, thanks to an easy and fast scripting language, LuaJIT, and an underlying C/CUDA implementation.
MS Azure Machine Learning Studio - Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio is a collaborative, drag-and-drop tool you can use to build, test, and deploy predictive analytics solutions on your data. Machine Learning Studio publishes models as web services that can easily be consumed by custom apps or BI tools such as Excel.
Amazon Machine Learning - Amazon Machine Learning is a service that makes it easy for developers of all skill levels to use machine learning technology. Amazon Machine Learning provides visualization tools and wizards that guide you through the process of creating machine learning (ML) models without having to learn complex ML algorithms and technology. Once your models are ready, Amazon Machine Learning makes it easy to obtain predictions for your application using simple APIs, without having to implement custom prediction generation code, or manage any infrastructure. 
Google Tensorflow - TensorFlow™ is an open source software library for numerical computation using data flow graphs. Nodes in the graph represent mathematical operations, while the graph edges represent the multidimensional data arrays (tensors) communicated between them. The flexible architecture allows you to deploy computation to one or more CPUs or GPUs in a desktop, server, or mobile device with a single API. TensorFlow was originally developed by researchers and engineers working on the Google Brain Team within Google's Machine Intelligence research organization for the purposes of conducting machine learning and deep neural networks research, but the system is general enough to be applicable in a wide variety of other domains as well.
Libraries/Other:

Scikit-learn - Scikit-learn is a free software machine learning library for the Python programming language.[2] It features various classification, regression and clustering algorithms including support vector machines, random forests, gradient boosting, k-means and DBSCAN, and is designed to interoperate with the Python numerical and scientific libraries NumPy and SciPy.
PyBrain: PyBrain is a modular Machine Learning Library for Python. Its goal is to offer flexible, easy-to-use yet still powerful algorithms for Machine Learning Tasks and a variety of predefined environments to test and compare your algorithms.
nltk - NLTK is a leading platform for building Python programs to work with human language data. It provides easy-to-use interfaces to over 50 corpora and lexical resources such as WordNet, along with a suite of text processing libraries for classification, tokenization, stemming, tagging, parsing, and semantic reasoning.
 numpy - NumPy is the fundamental package for scientific computing with Python. It contains among other things: a powerful N-dimensional array object. sophisticated (broadcasting) functions.
pandas -pandas is an open source, BSD-licensed library providing high-performance, easy-to-use data structures and data analysis tools for the Python programming language. pandas is a NUMFocus sponsored project. This will help ensure the success of development of pandas as a world-class open-source project.
 matplotlib - matplotlib is a python 2D plotting library which produces publication quality figures in a variety of hardcopy formats and interactive environments across platforms. matplotlib can be used in python scripts, the python and ipython shell (ala MATLAB®* or Mathematica®†), web application servers, and six graphical user interface toolkits.
Caffe - Caffe is a deep learning framework made with expression, speed, and modularity in mind. It is developed by the Berkeley Vision and Learning Center (BVLC) and by community contributors.Yangqing Jia created the project during his PhD at UC Berkeley. Caffe is released under the BSD 2-Clause license.
Theano -  Theano is a Python library that allows you to define, optimize, and evaluate mathematical expressions involving multi-dimensional arrays efficiently.
Keras - Keras is a high-level neural networks library, written in Python and capable of running on top of either TensorFlow or Theano. It was developed with a focus on enabling fast experimentation. Being able to go from idea to result with the least possible delay is key to doing good research.
DeepLearning4J - Deeplearning4j is the first commercial-grade, open-source, distributed deep-learning library written for Java and Scala. Integrated with Hadoop and Spark, DL4J is designed to be used in business environments on distributed GPUs and CPUs. Skymind is its commercial support arm.
mxnet - MXNet is a deep learning framework that can interface with R, Python, Julia, and C++. In recent benchmarks it performed comparably or faster than other frameworks such as TensorFlow, Torch, or Caffe. MXNet is developed by the DMLC team.
Pylearn is a Python library for machine learning, built on top of Theano, our library for defining, optimizing and evaluating mathematical expressions involving multi-dimensional arrays.
 Mocha is a Deep Learning framework for Julia, inspired by the C++ framework Caffe. Efficient implementations of general stochastic gradient solvers and common layers in Mocha could be used to train deep / shallow (convolutional) neural networks, with (optional) unsupervised pre-training via (stacked) auto-encoders. Its best feature include Modular architecture, High-level Interface, portability with speed, compatibility and many more.
kernlab -Kernal based machine learning methods for classification, regression, clustering, novelty detection, quantile regression and dimensionality reduction. Among other methods 'kernlab' includes Support Vector Machines, Spectral Clustering, Kernel PCA, Gaussian Processes and a QP solver.
The Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit—previously known as CNTK—empowers you to harness the intelligence within massive datasets through deep learning by providing uncompromised scaling, speed and accuracy with commercial-grade quality and compatibility with the programming languages and algorithms you already use.
